.TH nph 1 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "Directory Services"
.SH NAME
nph \- new PH client
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBnph [options] [selectors [return field1 ...] [@domain]]\fP
.br
\fBnph [options]\fP
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 1.2 of \fBnph\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBnph\fP is a new PH client.  It uses the \fIlibphclient\fP API and
contains a number of new features and usability improvements over the
old PH client.
.SH STARTUP
If \fBnph\fP is invoked with non-option arguments, they are interpreted
as a query command.  \fBnph\fP will perform the query and exit immediately.
Otherwise, \fBnph\fP will start up in interactive mode and accept commands
from \fIstdin\fP.

To determine what PH server to connect to, \fBnph\fP looks in three places.
If the \fI-s\fP commandline option (described below) is given, the
specified server is used.  Otherwise, if the \fIPH_SERVER\fP environment
variable is set, its value is used.  Finally, if neither of the previous
sources specify a server, the file \fI/etc/ph_server\fP is
read if it exists.  If no server is found, \fBnph\fP will not start.

Once a server is selected, \fBnph\fP then searches for a startup
file containing a list of commands to be automatically executed.
If the \fI-f\fP commandline option (described below) is given, it
specifies the name of the startup file to use.  Otherwise, it looks
for the file \fI${HOME}/.nphrc.server\fP, where \fIserver\fP is the
name of the selected server.  If that file does not exist, it looks for
\fI${HOME}/.nphrc\fP.  Lastly, if neither of the previous files exist,
it reads \fI/etc/nphrc\fP.
.SH COMMANDLINE OPTIONS
.TP
.B -c
Enable "confirmedits" option (see below).
.TP
.B -C
Do not read the system-wide \fInphrc\fP or the user's \fI${HOME}/.nphrc\fB
file.
.TP
.B -d
Enable "debug" option (see below).
.TP
.B -f rcfile
Tells \fBnph\fP to use \fIrcfile\fP as the startup file.
.TP
.B -F "field1 field2 ..."
Set the "returnfields" option to "field1 field2 ..." (see below).
.TP
.B -m
Disable the "usepager" option (see below).
.TP
.B -r
Disable the "canonicaladdrs" option (see below).
.TP
.B -R
Use a reserved port on the local end of the connection.  (This will only
succeed if \fBnph\fP is running as \fBroot\fP.)
.TP
.B -s server[:port]
Specify which PH server (and optionally, what port) to connect to.  If
the port is not given, the port corresponding to the \fIcsnet-ns\fP service
is used (usually port 105).
.SH INTERACTIVE MODE
The following commands are supported in interactive mode:
.TP
.B id text
Identify yourself for the PH server's logs.  Users do not normally need
to use this command.
.TP
.B external
Mark the session as external, or non-local.  This prevents the user from
accessing fields marked with the \fILocalPub\fP attribute.
.TP
.B suser alias
Assume the privileges of \fIalias\fP.  Only heros may execute this command.
.TP
.B login alias
Log in to the server as user \fIalias\fP.  The \fIlogin\fP command uses
the authentication mechanism indicated by the \fIauthtype\fP option.
.TP
.B logout
Log out of the PH server.
.TP
.B passwd
Change the password of the currently logged-in user.
.TP
.B password
Synonym for \fIpasswd\fP.
.TP
.B option [option=value]
With no arguments, displays the current value of all client-side options.
If arguments are given, the \fIoption\fP command sets the given option to
the given value.  See below for more information on options.
.TP
.B switch
Synonym for \fIoption\fP.
.TP
.B source file
Read and executes commands from \fIfile\fP.
.TP
.B .
Synonym for \fIsource\fP.
.TP
.B <
Synonym for \fIsource\fP.
.TP
.B help [command]
Displays a one-line help message for \fIcommand\fP.  If no arguments are given,
the \fIhelp\fP command displays information for all valid commands.
.TP
.B ?
Synonym for \fIhelp\fP.
.TP
.B quit
Disconnect from the PH server and exit \fInph\fP.
.TP
.B bye
Synonym for \fIquit\fP.
.TP
.B exit
Synonym for \fIquit\fP.
.TP
.B stop
Synonym for \fIquit\fP.
.TP
.B whoami
Displays the currently logged-in username, plus the name of the server.
.TP
.B status
Prints the PH server's status information.
.TP
.B motd
Synonym for \fIstatus\fP.
.TP
.B set [option[=value]]
Without arguments, displays the current value of all server-side options.
With arguments, it sets the value of the given option.  If the value is
not specified, the default value is "on".
.TP
.B siteinfo
Displays the site-specific configuration list from the PH server.
.TP
.B connect host[:port]
Connects to the specified server and disconnects from the currently-connected
server.
.TP
.B serveradd server [site]
Adds a server and corresponding site name to the list of known PH servers.
.TP
.B listservers [domain]
Displays the list of known PH servers.  If \fIdomain\fP is listed,
only servers in that domain will be displayed.  \fIdomain\fP must be
composed of at least two '.'-delimited portions of the server name
to search for (e.g., "uiuc.edu" instead of "edu").
.TP
.B fields [field]
Displays information about the fields supported by the server.  Without
arguments, it displays all supported fields.  With arguments, it displays
only the listed fields.
.TP
.B edit field [alias]
Edit the named field using the external editor specified by the
\fIeditor\fP client option.  The user must be logged in before using
this command.

If \fIalias\fP is given, edit the field from the entry for \fIalias\fP;
otherwise, edit the field from the logged-in user's entry.  To edit
a field from some entry other than that of the logged-in user, the
logged-in user must either have hero privileges or must be allowed to
edit the specified entry by proxy.
.TP
.B query selectors... [return fields...] [@domain]
Retrieve entries from the PH server.  The \fIselectors\fP specify the
entries to retrieve (as described in \fISELECTING ENTRIES\fP below).

The optional \fIreturn\fP clause specifies which fields of the matching
entries should be returned.  If no \fIreturn\fP clause is given and the
\fIreturnfields\fP option is unset, only fields marked with the
\fIDefault\fP attribute will be returned by the server.

If the \fI@domain\fP argument is given, \fBnph\fP will attempt to find
the PH server for the specified domain.  If found, the query will be
sent to that server, rather than the current server.  Once the query is
complete, the connection to the original server will be resumed without
interruption.
.TP
.B change selectors... make|force assignments...
Change entries on the server.  The user must be logged in before using
this command and must have permission to change the selected entry or
entries.  The \fIselectors\fP specify the entries to which the changes
should be applied.  The \fIassignments\fP specify the changes to apply
to all matching entries.

The \fIforce\fP keyword allows the user to make a non-encrypted change
to fields marked with the \fIEncrypt\fP keyword.  Otherwise, all
changes will normally use the \fImake\fP keyword instead.
.TP
.B make assignments...
This is a short form of the \fIchange\fP command which operates on the
entry of the logged-in user.
.TP
.B delete selectors...
Delete entries.  The user must be logged in and have hero privileges in
order to perform this operation.
.TP
.B add assignments...
Adds an entry with the data given in \fIassignments\fP.  The user must be
logged in and have hero privileges in order to perform this operation.
.TP
.B me
A short form of the \fIquery\fP command which displays all fields of the
currently logged-in user's entry.
.TP
.B resolve_email user
Returns the PH-resolved email address for \fIuser\fP.
.TP
.B public_email alias
Returns the advertised email address for \fIalias\fP.
.TP
.B resolve_www user
Returns the PH-resolved URL for \fIuser\fP.
.TP
.B public_www alias
Returns the advertised URL for \fIalias\fP.
.SH SELECTING ENTRIES
The \fIquery\fP, \fIchange\fP, and \fIdelete\fP commands select the entries
which they operate on based on \fIselectors\fP.  The selectors are
a list of one or more criteria which are used by the server to select
entries.  When multiple selectors are listed, only entries which
match all of the selectors will be selected.

Each selector is composed of a value, preceded by an optional field
and operator.  If the field and operator are given, the selector matches
entries whose data for the given field matches the given value.  If no
field and operator are given, the default fields are checked, which are
usually "name" and "nickname".  The only universally understood operator
is '=', but some servers support '~', '<', and '>'.

Certain special symbols, called "wildcard" characters, can be used in
the value if the exact spelling is unknown.   The '*' character is used in
place of zero or more characters, the '+' character in place of one or more
unknown characters, and the '?' character can be used when exactly one
character is unknown.  In addition, if the unknown character can be one
of a limited set this can be specified by surrounding the set with
brackets, e.g., [ei] means that in that place an 'e' or an 'i' would match.

Here are a few examples of selectors:
.TP
.B alias=smith
Select entries whose \fIalias\fP field is set to \fIsmith\fP.
.TP
.B john smith
Select entries whose \fIname\fP or \fInickname\fP fields match \fIjohn\fP
and \fIsmith\fP.
.TP
.B alias=smi* name=john
Select entries whose \fIalias\fP field starts with \fIsmi\fP and whose
\fIname\fP or \fInickname\fP fields contain \fIjohn\fP.
.PP
Many servers apply limits on computation time and or on the number of
entries returned, to prevent mailing list generation and/or to minimize
performance problems.  Therefore, it is often advisable to be as specific
as possible in identifying an entry.
.SH ASSIGNING VALUES
The \fIchange\fP, \fImake\fP, and \fIadd\fP commands set specific fields
to specific values on the server based on a list of one or more
\fIassignments\fP.  All of the listed assignments are performed on
all of the selected entries.

Each assignment is composed of a field name, the '=' character, and a
value.  This syntax is similar to the \fIselector\fP syntax, but it is
somewhat more rigid.  Assignments cannot omit the field name, cannot
use operators other then '=', and cannot use wildcard characters.

Here are a few examples of assignments:
.TP
.B email=j-smith@students.uiuc.edu
Sets the \fIemail\fP field to \fIj-smith@students.uiuc.edu\fP.
.TP
.B www=http://www.students.uiuc.edu/~j-smith/
Sets the \fIwww\fP field to \fIhttp://www.students.uiuc.edu/~j-smith/\fP.
.SH CLIENT OPTIONS
Client options are settable using the \fIoption\fP command described
above.  The following client options are supported.  The default value
is listed in parenthesis next to each option.
.TP
.B authtype (password)
Defines the authentication mechanism used to login to the PH server.
Supported mechanisms are \fIpassword\fP, \fIemail\fP, and \fIclear\fP.
(The \fIclear\fP method is not recommended because it is inherently
insecure.)
.TP
.B confirmedits (off)
This is a boolean option.  If on, \fBnph\fP will ask for confirmation
before applying the change during an \fIedit\fP command.
.TP
.B debug (off)
This is a boolean option.  If on, all communication between the client
and server will be displayed.
.TP
.B defaultfield (not set by default)
Defines the default field for field selectors which do not specify a field.
If unset, the default field configured on the server is used (usually
\fIname\fP and \fInickname\fP).
.TP
.B editor ($EDITOR)
Defines the editor to use for \fIedit\fP commands.  If the first character
is a '$', the value is obtained from the named environment variable.
.TP
.B pager ($PAGER)
Defines an external pager program (such as \fImore\fP or \fIless\fP) to
use for \fIquery\fP, \fIme\fP, \fIfields\fP, and \fIstatus\fP commands.
If the first character is a '$', the value is obtained from the named
environment variable.
.TP
.B returnfields (not set by default)
Set the list of fields which are returned for queries which do not
have a \fIreturn\fP clause.  For multiple fields, specify a quoted
string of space-delimited field names.  If this option is not set and no
\fIreturn\fP clause is given, only fields marked with the \fIDefault\fP
attribute are returned by the server.
.TP
.B server (none)
Defines which PH server (and optionally, which port) to connect to.
Changing this setting will imediately disconnect from the current server and
connect to the newly-specified server.
.TP
.B canonicaladdrs (off)
This is a boolean option.  If on, advertised addresses are printed for the
\fIemail\fP and \fIwww\fP fields instead of the actual values.
.TP
.B usepager (on)
This is a boolean option.  If on, the pager specified by the \fIpager\fP
option will be used for the \fIquery\fP, \fIme\fP, \fIfields\fP, and
\fIstatus\fP commands.  Otherwise, the output of these commands will be
sent to \fIstdout\fP.
.TP
.B usereservedport (off)
Connect to the PH server from a port below 1024.  This is necessary in
order to use the \fIemail\fP authentication method (described above).
However, \fBnph\fP must be running as \fIroot\fP in order to do this,
which is not recommended.
.SH STARTUP FILES
On startup, \fBnph\fP will first read the \fI/etc/nphrc\fP file,
and then the invoking user's \fI${HOME}/.nphrc\fP file.  These files can
be used to set defaults for \fBnph\fP options.  The file must consist of
assignments of the form \fIoption=value\fP, one per line.  Blank lines
are ignored, as is any text on the same line following a '#' character.

\fBnph\fP will also read the \fI/etc/ph_server\fP file at
startup for a default list of known PH servers at different sites.
.SH REDIRECTING OUTPUT
The standard shell expressions ">", ">>", and "|" can be used at the end of
any \fBnph\fP command to redirect the output to a file or program.  If the
output of a \fIquery\fP, \fIme\fP, \fIfields\fP, or \fIstatus\fP command
is redirected, it is not piped to the pager regardless of the setting of the
\fIusepager\fP option.
.SH FILES
\fI/etc/nphrc\fP
.br
\fI/etc/ph_server\fP
.br
\fI${HOME}/.nphrc\fP
.br
\fI${HOME}/.nphrc.*\fP
.SH SEE ALSO
\fBph_open\fP(3)
.br
The \fBnph\fP Homepage (\fIhttp://www.feep.net/nph/\fP)
.SH AUTHOR
Mark D. Roth <roth@feep.net>
