.TH ph_email_resolve 3 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "C Library Calls"
.SH NAME
ph_email_resolve, ph_advertised_email \- determine PH-redirected email addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <phclient.h>
.P
.BI "int ph_email_resolve(PH *" ph ", char *" user ","
.BI "char *" fields ", char **" real_email ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_advertised_email(PH *" ph ", char *" alias ","
.BI "int " confirm_alias ", char **" advertised_email ");"
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 1.2 of \fBlibphclient\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBph_email_resolve\fP() function resolves the email address whose
user portion is \fIuser\fP.  The \fIreal_email\fP argument is set to
point to a dynamically-allocated string containing the resolved email
address.  This memory must be later freed by the calling application.

The \fIfields\fP argument is a string containing a space- or
colon-delimited list of field names to match entries on.  If \fIfields\fP
is \fBNULL\fP or points to an empty string, \fBph_email_resolve\fP() uses
the field list specified by the server's \fImailmatches\fP \fBsiteinfo\fP
field.  If the server doesn't support the \fImailmatches\fP field,
\fBph_email_resolve\fP() falls back to the default list, which is
"alias:callsign".

The \fBph_email_resolve\fP() function returns the email address found in
the field specified by the server's \fImailbox\fP \fBsiteinfo\fP field.
This is typically set to \fIemail\fP, which means that the email address
will be found in the user's \fIemail\fP field.

The \fBph_advertised_email\fP() function determines the advertised
email address for the user whose alias is \fIalias\fP.  If \fIconfirm_alias\fP
is set, the entry for \fIalias\fP is looked up to make sure it exists.  The
\fIadvertised_email\fP argument is set to point to a dynamically-allocated
string containing the advertised email address.  This memory must later
be freed by the calling application.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return 0 on success, \fIPH_ERR_NOMATCH\fP if a single matching
entry cannot be found, and \fIPH_ERR_DATAERR\fP if the query is invalid.
On error, they return -1 and set \fIerrno\fP.

In addition, \fBph_email_resolve\fP() returns \fIPH_ERR_DATAERR\fP if a single
matching entry is found but contains no \fIemail\fP field.
.SH ERRORS
These functions will fail with \fBEINVAL\fP if the server does
not support the \fImailbox\fP or \fImailfield\fP siteinfo entries,
or if they receive an unexpected response code from the server.
In addition, they may fail with any error from the functions \fIread\fP()
or \fIwrite\fP().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR ph_open (3),
.BR ph_siteinfo (3)
