.TH ph_get_option 3 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "C Library Calls"
.SH NAME
ph_get_option, ph_retrieve_options, ph_set_option, ph_option_iterate \- show and set PH server options
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <phclient.h>
.P
.BI "int ph_get_option(PH *" ph ", char *" option ","
.BI "char **" setting ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_retrieve_options(PH *" ph ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_set_option(PH *" ph ", char *" option ","
.BI "char *" setting ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_option_iterate(PH *" ph ", struct ph_option **" svropt ");"
.br
.BI "void ph_free_options(PH *" ph ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_is_optionlist_cached(PH *" ph ");"
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 1.2 of \fBlibphclient\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions allow the caller to access the list of options supported
by the PH server associated with the \fBPH\fP handle \fIph\fP.  Each
option is represented as a \fIstruct ph_option\fP, which contains the
fields \fIoption\fP and \fIsetting\fP.

The \fBph_retrieve_options\fP() function retrieves the option list from
the PH server to be cached locally.  If the option list is already cached
locally, the call will return successfully without doing anything.

The \fBph_is_optionlist_cached\fP() macro determines if the option list
is currently cached locally.

The \fBph_free_options\fP() function clears the local option list cache.
A subsequent call to \fBph_retrieve_options\fP() will reload the option
list from the server.

The \fBph_get_option\fP() function sets the \fIsetting\fP argument to point to
the current value of the option named \fIoption\fP.  It automatically calls
\fBph_retrieve_options\fP() if the option list is not cached locally.

The \fBph_set_option\fP() function sets the value of \fIoption\fP to
\fIsetting\fP.

The \fBph_option_iterate\fP() function allows the caller to iterate
through all server options by setting \fIsvropt\fP to point to the next
option at each successive call.  To begin at the beginning of the list,
the caller initializes \fIsvropt\fP to \fBNULL\fP.
.SH RETURN VALUE
The \fBph_retrieve_options\fP() function returns 0 on success, or -1 on error
and sets \fIerrno\fP.

The \fBph_is_optionlist_cached\fP() macro returns 1 if the option list is
cached locally, or 0 otherwise.

The \fBph_get_option\fP() and \fBph_set_option\fP() functions return 0 on
success, or -1 on error, or \fIPH_ERR_DATAERR\fP if \fIoption\fP is not found.

The \fBph_option_iterate\fP() function returns 1 when an option is returned,
or 0 when the end of the list has been reached.  On error, it returns -1
and sets \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORS
The \fBph_get_options\fP() function will fail with \fBEINVAL\fP if it
receives an unexpected response code from the server.

The \fBph_get_options\fP() function may fail with any error from the functions
\fIread\fP() or \fIwrite\fP().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR ph_open (3)
