.TH ph_login 3 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "C Library Calls"
.SH NAME
ph_login, ph_logout, ph_suser \- PH server authentication routines
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <phclient.h>
.P
.BI "int ph_login(PH *" ph ", char *" alias ","
.BI "int " authtype ", void *" auth ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_logout(PH *" ph ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_suser(PH *" ph ", char *" alias ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_passwd(PH *" ph ", char *" newpass ");"
.br
.BI "char *ph_whoami(PH *" ph ");"
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 1.2 of \fBlibphclient\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBph_login\fP() function authenticates the user \fIalias\fP to the
PH server associated with the \fBPH\fP handle \fIph\fP.  The \fIauthtype\fP
argument must be set to one of the following values:
.IP \fBPH_AUTH_EMAIL\fP
Email authentication.  If the connection was established using the
\fBPH_OPEN_PRIVPORT\fP flag to \fBph_open\fP(), the user will be authenticated
if the local username and hostname match the value of the user's \fIemail\fP
field on the PH server.  The \fIauth\fP argument is ignored.
.IP \fBPH_AUTH_PASSWORD\fP
Encrypted password authentication.  The \fIauth\fP argument is the user's
password.
.IP \fBPH_AUTH_CLEAR\fP
Cleartext password authentication.  Use of this authentication method is
not recommended, since it is inherently insecure.  The \fIauth\fP argument
is the user's password.
.PP
The \fBph_logout\fP() function logs the currently logged-in user out of the
PH server.  The session goes back to being an unpriveledged, anonymous
session.

The \fBph_suser\fP() function allows a PH hero to assume the identity of
any arbitrary user without hero priveledges.  The \fIalias\fP argument
indicates the user whose priveledges should be assumed.

The \fBph_passwd\fP() function changes the password of the currently
logged-in user.  The \fInewpass\fP argument is the new password.

The \fBph_whoami\fP() function returns the name of the currently
logged-in user, or NULL if no user is logged in.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On successful completion, \fBph_login\fP() returns 0.  If authentication
is denied by the server, it returns \fIPH_ERR_NOTLOG\fP.  On failure, it
returns -1 and sets \fIerrno\fP to an appropriate value.

On successful completion, \fBph_logout\fP() returns 0.  If no user is
logged in, it returns \fIPH_ERR_NOTLOG\fP.  On other errors, it returns -1
and sets \fIerrno\fP to an appropriate value.

The \fBph_suser\fP() function returns 0 on success, \fIPH_ERR_NOTHERO\fP
if the calling user is not a PH hero, or \fIPH_ERR_NOTLOG\fP if no user
is logged in.  On failure, it returns -1 and sets \fIerrno\fP to an
appropriate value.

The \fBph_passwd\fP() function returns 0 on success, or \fIPH_ERR_NOTLOG\fP
if no user is logged in.  It can also fail with the same values returned
by \fBph_change\fP(3).  On failure, it returns -1 and sets \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORS
The functions described here may fail with any error from the functions
\fIread\fP() or \fIwrite\fP().

The \fBph_login\fP() function will return the following errors:
.IP \fBEINVAL\fP
The \fIauthtype\fP is invalid.
.IP \fBEINVAL\fP
Invalid data is read from the server.
.IP \fBEAGAIN\fP
The server responds with a temporary failure.
.PP
In addition, \fBph_login\fP() may fail with any error from the functions
\fIgetpwuid\fP() or \fImalloc\fP().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR getpwuid (3),
.BR ph_open (3),
.BR ph_change (3)
