.TH ph_open 3 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "C Library Calls"
.SH NAME
ph_open, ph_close \- manage PH server connections
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <phclient.h>
.P
.B "typedef void (*ph_debug_func_t)(void *, char *);"
.br
.BI "int ph_open(PH **" ph ", char *" server ","
.BI "int " flags ", ph_debug_func_t " sendhook ","
.BI "ph_debug_func_t " recvhook ", void *" hook_data ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_close(PH *" ph ", int " flags ");"
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 1.2 of \fBlibphclient\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBph_open\fP() function connects to the PH server specified by
\fIserver\fP.  It allocates memory for a \fBPH\fP handle and
sets the \fIph\fP argument to point to the allocated handle.  The handle
can then be passed to other \fIlibphclient\fP calls to communicate with
the server.

The \fIflags\fP argument is a bitwise-or of zero or more of the following
values:
.IP \fBPH_OPEN_PRIVPORT\fP
Use a reserved port for the local part of the connection.
.IP \fBPH_OPEN_ROUNDROBIN\fP
If \fIserver\fP is a round-robin DNS entry, try all IP addresses
before giving up.
.IP \fBPH_OPEN_LOCAL\fP
Connect to a local process via a pipe, rather than to a remote network
port.  If this flag is given, the \fBPH_OPEN_PRIVPORT\fP and
\fBPH_OPEN_ROUNDROBIN\fP flags are ignored, the \fIserver\fP argument
specifies a path to the PH server program on the local system.

If \fBPH_OPEN_LOCAL\fP is not set, the \fIserver\fP argument specifies the
hostname of the remote PH server.  It may optionally be suffixed with
a ":" character followed by a numeric port number.
.IP \fBPH_OPEN_DONTID\fP
Do not send the library version string to the server upon connection.
.PP
The \fIsendhook\fP() and \fIrecvhook\fP() arguments are optional pointers
to functions which allow the calling application to monitor the communication
between \fBlibphclient\fP and the PH server.  See \fBph_set_sendhook\fP(3)
for more information.

The \fBph_close\fP() function closes the PH server connection and frees
memory associated with \fIph\fP.  If \fIflags\fP is set to
\fBPH_CLOSE_FAST\fP, the connection is closed without sending the
PH "quit" command.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On successful completion, \fBph_open\fP() and \fBph_close\fP() will return
0.  On failure, they will return -1 and set \fIerrno\fP to an
appropriate value.
.SH ERRORS
The \fBph_open\fP() function may fail with any error from the functions
\fIpipe\fP(), \fIclose\fP(), \fIdup2\fP(), \fIvfork()\fP, \fIexecl\fP(),
\fIexeclp\fP(), \fIgethostbyname\fP(), \fIrresvport\fP(), \fIsocket\fP(),
\fIconnect\fP(), or \fIcalloc\fP().

The \fBph_close\fP() function may fail with any error from the functions
\fIclose\fP() or \fIwrite\fP().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR socket (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR close (2)
