.TH ph_query 3 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "C Library Calls"
.SH NAME
ph_query, ph_free_entries, ph_free_query \- retrieve data from a PH server
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <phclient.h>
.P
.BI "int ph_query(PH *" ph ", struct ph_fieldselector " query "[],"
.BI "char *" retfields "[], ph_entry **" entries ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_free_entries(ph_entry *" entries ");"
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 1.2 of \fBlibphclient\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBph_query\fP() function retrieves entries from the PH server
associated with the \fBPH\fP handle \fIph\fP.  The \fIquery\fP argument
selects which entries to return.  The \fIretfields\fP argument
indicates which fields from the selected entries should be returned.
The resulting entries are stored in dynamicly-allocated memory, and the
\fIentries\fP argument is set to point to them.

The \fIquery\fP argument is an array of structures which contain the
following fields: \fIfield\fP (a string representation of the field name),
\fIvalue\fP (a string representation of the value to check for), and
\fIoperation\fP (a character value indicating how the field and value
should be compared).  If \fIfield\fP is NULL, the \fIoperation\fP field
is ignored and the value is matched against the default fields on the
server.  The only universally-supported value for \fIoperation\fP is '=',
but other possibilities include '~', '<', and '>'.

The \fIretfields\fP argument is a NULL-terminated array of strings which
lists the fields to return.  If \fIretfields\fP is NULL, the default
set of fields is returned from the server.

The \fBph_free_entries\fP() function is used to free memory allocated
by \fBph_query\fP() for the \fIentries\fP argument.
.SH RETURN VALUE
On success, the \fBph_query\fP() function returns the number of entries
which matched \fIquery\fP.  If the query matched too many entries for the
server to return them, it returns \fIPH_ERR_TOOMANY\fP.  If no entries matched,
it returns \fIPH_ERR_NOMATCH\fP.  If the query was invalid, it returns
\fIPH_ERR_DATAERR\fP.  On error, it returns -1 and sets \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORS
The \fBph_query\fP() function will fail with \fBEINVAL\fP if it receives
an unexpected response code from the server.  In addition, it may fail
with any error from the functions \fIread\fP() or \fIwrite\fP().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR ph_open (3)
