.TH ph_www_resolve 3 "Oct 2002" "University of Illinois" "C Library Calls"
.SH NAME
ph_www_resolve, ph_advertised_www \- determine PH-redirected www addresses
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <phclient.h>
.P
.BI "int ph_www_resolve(PH *" ph ", char *" user ","
.BI "char **" real_url ");"
.br
.BI "int ph_advertised_www(PH *" ph ", char *" alias ","
.BI "int " confirm_alias ", char **" advertised_url ");"
.SH VERSION
This man page documents version 1.2 of \fBlibphclient\fP.
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBph_www_resolve\fP() function resolves the URL for the
user \fIuser\fP.  The \fIreal_www\fP argument is set to point to a
dynamically-allocated string containing the resolved URL.  This memory
must be later freed by the calling application.

The \fBph_advertised_www\fP() function determines the advertised URL for
the user whose alias is \fIalias\fP.  If \fIconfirm_alias\fP is set,
the entry for \fIalias\fP is looked up to make sure it exists.  The
\fIadvertised_www\fP argument is set to point to a dynamically-allocated
string containing the advertised URL.  This memory must later be freed
by the calling application.

If the server does not support the \fIwwwredirect\fP siteinfo field, the
\fBph_advertised_www\fP() function will return the same URL as the
\fBph_www_resolve\fP() function.
.SH RETURN VALUE
These functions return 0 on success, \fIPH_ERR_NOMATCH\fP if a single matching
entry cannot be found, and \fIPH_ERR_DATAERR\fP if the query is invalid or if
a single matching entry is found but does not contain a \fIwww\fP field.
On error, they return -1 and set \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORS
These functions will fail with \fBEINVAL\fP if they receive an unexpected
response code from the server.  In addition, they may fail with any
error from the functions \fIread\fP() or \fIwrite\fP().
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR ph_open (3),
.BR ph_siteinfo (3)
